WATTENBERG: 「And that’s what you want to do?」

MUSK: 「Among other things, certainly one of the reasons.」

WATTENBERG: 「How big would you like to grow in your mind’s eye? Very, very, very big or medium big? I mean, do you want to be as big as Microsoft?」

MUSK: [Laughs] 「Do I want to be as big as Microsoft?」

WATTENBERG: 「Well, somebody—Gates did it. It’s not inconceivable.」

MUSK: 「Well, the size of the company’s market cap isn’t really a metric by which I’d judge my own achievement. I’m much more interested in, for example, Tesla and SolarCity making an impact on climate change, reducing CO2 production, and achieving energy independence. For SpaceX, I’m primarily interested in making progress toward becoming a spacefaring civilization and ultimately extending life beyond Earth.」

MUSK: 「As a result, I expect the companies will be valuable, because it would be hard to accomplish those objectives without being valuable.」

WATTENBERG: 「That’s very interesting. I’m in awe of what you guys do—not only because you create goods and services that we need, but also because I was deeply involved in the Cold War.」

WATTENBERG: 「SDI—Star Wars—probably never would have worked, like hitting a bullet with a bullet, especially with 25,000 MRVs. But it was one of the most successful military programs in history, not because of its actual capability, but because it scared the Russians. It showed that free people, like those in America, can create extraordinary things. The Soviets couldn’t, because they didn’t allow kids to experiment in their backyards. It’s the same with innovation in the marketplace and technology.」

MUSK: 「Yeah, I agree.」

WATTENBERG: 「Who are your heroes?」

MUSK: 「My heroes? Well, Winston Churchill and Thomas Edison come to mind. I could go on with a long list.」

WATTENBERG: 「Any of the American tech guys? People doing the sorts of things you’re doing?」

MUSK: 「Oh, you mean...」

WATTENBERG: 「Yeah, in your field. Go ahead, counselor.」

MUSK: [Laughter] 「Well, contemporary figures? I’d say Larry Page and Sergey Brin at Google. They’re my heroes—and also my friends.」

WATTENBERG: 「Do you hang out with these guys socially?」

MUSK: 「Yes.」

WATTENBERG: 「Is there anyone in the political world that you admire today?」

MUSK: 「Who’s alive today?」

WATTENBERG: 「Yes, anyone you admire or detest?」

MUSK: [Pause] 「You know, I’m not a huge admirer of politicians in general.」

WATTENBERG: 「Most Americans aren’t.」 [Laughter]

WATTENBERG: 「It’s interesting—maybe it’s a healthy sign for the country that people don’t like politicians.」

MUSK: 「Yeah, I wouldn’t say I’m a huge admirer of anyone in particular on the political stage today. Historically, I’d say Winston Churchill, Teddy Roosevelt, Disraeli.」

WATTENBERG: 「What about more recent figures? Do you think Reagan did a good job?」
