MUSK: 「Well, I think the United States is the greatest country that’s ever existed on Earth. It’s difficult to argue otherwise on objective grounds. The facts point in that direction. The U.S. has been the greatest force for good in history. Without the U.S., democracy would not exist in the world.」

MUSK: 「In three major occasions in the 20th century—World War I, World War II, and the Cold War—democracy would have fallen if not for the United States.」

WATTENBERG: 「And perhaps the threat of terrorism would be much greater today without the U.S.」

MUSK: 「Absolutely. It would be wrong to say the U.S. is perfect—it’s made many mistakes. But when historians look back and weigh the good with the bad, it’s hard to deny that the U.S. has been a tremendous force for good.」

WATTENBERG: 「I completely agree with you. What about immigration? My sense is that America’s biggest advantage is that we take in lots of immigrants, and we’re the only country with a really effective assimilation system.」

MUSK: 「I totally agree. Assimilation doesn’t mean erasing the culture someone comes from. It adds to the diversity of the country. If you want to keep your original country’s culture unmodified, then why move?」

WATTENBERG: 「There’s evidence that immigrants are often more patriotic than people born here. They’ve made the rational choice to come to America, whereas those born here didn’t have to make that decision.」

MUSK: 「Absolutely.」

WATTENBERG: 「What is the X Prize?」

MUSK: 「The X Prize Foundation creates prizes to incentivize breakthroughs in important areas. There are many X Prizes. For example, there’s a genomics X Prize for low-cost human genome decoding, sponsored by Craig Venter.」

WATTENBERG: 「We’ve had Francis Collins, the head of the Human Genome Project, on this program. A very remarkable man.」

MUSK: 「Oh, yes.」

WATTENBERG: 「How have your companies been doing revenue-wise?」

MUSK: 「SpaceX revenue has been growing 150 to 200 percent a year. Tesla is just starting to ship cars next month, so we’ll see revenue recognized next year. Tesla will probably do $60 or $70 million in revenue next year.」

WATTENBERG: 「SpaceX is already profitable?」

MUSK: 「Yes.」

WATTENBERG: 「Tesla isn’t yet, right?」

MUSK: 「Not yet.」

WATTENBERG: 「Are any of your ventures public?」

MUSK: 「None of my major ventures are public yet. But I expect SpaceX, Tesla, and SolarCity will all go public eventually.」

WATTENBERG: 「To raise capital for expansion?」

MUSK: 「Yes, going public provides more capital, some liquidity for investors, and it’s helpful as currency for acquiring other companies.」

WATTENBERG: 「So, you plan to go public and issue stock?」

MUSK: 「Well, it’s not the goal itself, but it’s a consequence of reaching a certain level of maturity for the company. Public isn’t the end goal, it’s a step in the journey.」

WATTENBERG: 「You were... [unintelligible]」

MUSK: 「Absolutely.」