WATTENBERG: 「Now, you want to go to Mars?」

MUSK: 「I wouldn’t say it’s a personal interest of mine to go to Mars, but really my interest is in the extension of life beyond Earth. To the best of my knowledge, life exists only on Earth, and this is the first time in the 4-billion-year history of Earth that it’s possible to extend life to another planet.」

WATTENBERG: 「So, you want to go to Mars like they went to Mount Everest, because it’s there?」

MUSK: 「No, no. I think the sort of flippant remark by Hillary about Everest was a noteworthy achievement, but this is not in that category. This has much deeper philosophical underpinnings and is better financed. I think it’s important to extend life beyond Earth.」

MUSK: 「It goes to the nature of importance. How do you decide one thing is important versus another? If you look at the history of Earth on a geological grand scale, you see that milestones in the history of life itself, like the advent of single-celled life, multi-cellular life, plants versus animals...」

WATTENBERG: 「Invention of fire, the wheel, that kind of thing.」

MUSK: 「That’s actually very specific to humanity. Those are only important in the context of humanity.」

WATTENBERG: 「Oh, I see. Okay.」
MUSK: 「I’m talking about things that are important in the context of life itself. So, you know, there’s life extending—life emerging from the oceans and moving up to land. There’s the advent of mammals, the development of consciousness. There’s maybe ten or twelve things that fit on that scale. And then within a subset of man’s achievements would be things like fire, the wheel, the internet, and that sort of thing.」

WATTENBERG: 「Do you believe that there was an unmoved mover? Did something otherworldly start it all?」

MUSK: 「I think the universe can be explained by the laws of physics and does not require any supreme being.」

WATTENBERG: 「Let’s get on to some other things. Much of the space program and its origins, of course, were governmental.」

MUSK: 「Yes.」

WATTENBERG: 「I mean, it was military, it was NASA. Is the basic future of the space program and space exploration—should that be done governmentally or privately or both?」

MUSK: 「Probably both. I mean, yes, space exploration… it’s both a government and a private endeavor.」

WATTENBERG: 「Could you operate without government help?」

MUSK: 「Yes.」

WATTENBERG: 「I mean, it’s reached a point where you can design your rockets and do things and you don’t need to—」

MUSK: 「Correct. We started with no government help. The government is a customer, but we also have main commercial customers as well.」

WATTENBERG: 「Who’s your customer? Defense and NASA?」

MUSK: 「Well, NASA is probably our single biggest customer. The Defense Department, particularly DARPA, is also a customer. But then we also have McDonald Detweiler, a Canadian company, and we recently signed a commercial geo-satellite launch contract with Avanti, a UK commercial satellite operator.」

WATTENBERG: 「Do you find yourself at a disadvantage or advantage dealing with these great big industrial behemoths, where your competitors are Boeing and companies like that?」

MUSK: 「I think we have the advantage because it’s very hard for those large companies to attract the best engineers. They’re really not great environments to work in. So, we’ve been very successful in recruiting top people out of those organizations, and they’re just really inefficient—cost inefficient.」

WATTENBERG: 「The bigger something is, the more inefficient it becomes?」

MUSK: 「As a company grows, you can use division of labor and specialization, which increases efficiency. But once you reach a certain point, communication inefficiencies overwhelm that specialization, and then you get declining efficiency per employee.」

WATTENBERG: 「How fast is SpaceX growing in terms of people?」